## **Assignment No. 2 (Concrete behaviour in fresh and hardened states)**  


**Notes:**

- Attempt all questions. 
- The assignment should be *hand-written*.
- The assignment has to submitted on the **[Course Page - will be updated soon](https://guru.gndec.ac.in/guru/course/view.php?id=976#section-1)** before due date (i.e. March 26, 2025, 11:59 pm). 
- The submission file will be accepted in pdf format only.
- Copying of Assignments is highly discouraged and may be penalized. It is expected that every individual should thoroughly study the topic and then attempt the Assignment.
- To submit assignment **[Click Here - new link will be available soon](https://guru.gndec.ac.in/guru/mod/assign/view.php?id=2313)**.

----

### Section - A (Properties of Fresh Concrete)

1. Define workability of concrete; enlist the different methods for measuring it in the laboratory? Explain the procedure of conducting any one of the test.
2. Describe the factors affecting the workability of fresh concrete. How does workability of fresh concrete different from its rheology?
3. Explain the compacting factor test. Compare it with slump test.
4. Describe segregation, bleeding and laitance of concrete. Explain the factors affecting them.
5. Explain different types of slump with the help of sketch.

----

### Section - B (Properties of Hardened Concrete)

1. What does strength in concrete mean? List the different types of concrete strengths.
2. How are compressive and flexural strengths determined? What if the relationship between compressive and flexural strength?
3. Why is compressive strength usually considered being most important in concrete design?
4. What are the fundamental factors influencing the compressive strength of concrete? Explain any one of them.
5. What if gel/space ratio? How does it influence the strength of concrete?
6. Describe the three phases of concrete that affect the strength of concrete.
7. Explain the test parameters related to the specimen and loading which affect the strength of concrete.
8. State the destructive tests performed on hardened concrete and describe the split tension test on concrete cylinder and cube for determining the tensile strength of concrete. Also enlist the merits of this indirect test.
9. Discuss the various aspect of durability of concrete. What measures are suggested by IS 456:2000 to ensure durable structure?
10. List the causes of lack of durability and explain how chloride-ion penetration affects the durability.
11. Write short notes on the following:
  - a) Durability and its significance
  - b) Permeability of Concrete
  - c) Creep, its importance and factors affecting it
  - d) Shrinkage and factors affecting it
12. What is alkali-silica reactivity (ASR)? Enlist the factors that promote the alkali-silica reaction. How can the damage from alkali-silica reaction (ASR) in a concrete structure be diagnosed?
13. Write short notes on the following:
  - a) Efflorescence and its prevention
  - b) Fire resistance of concrete
  - c) Concrete in Marine environment
  - d) Factors affecting the modulus of elasticity of Concrete
14. Describe the phenomenon of micro-cracking of hardened concrete.
15. List various causes of cracking in concrete. Also, discuss different types of cracks and illustrate with the help of sketches.

----
*Prof. Yuvraj Singh*
