## **Assignment No. 3 (Production of Concrete)**  

**Notes:**

- Attempt all questions. 
- The assignment should be *hand-written*.
- Include a proper title page (With your Name, URN, and CRN) in your assignment.
- The assignment has to submitted **[through this google form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfiQDJfXrm5nx_giKek5NqgM6Hc4qC4_msL53nQ-IQ8LTObEQ/viewform?usp=sharing)** before due date (i.e. April 10, 2025, 11:59 pm). 
- The submission file will be accepted in pdf format only.
- Copying of Assignments is highly discouraged and may be penalized. It is expected that every individual should thoroughly study the topic and then attempt the Assignment.
  🔗 **[Click Here to Submit Your Assignment](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfiQDJfXrm5nx_giKek5NqgM6Hc4qC4_msL53nQ-IQ8LTObEQ/viewform?usp=sharing)**

----

### Production of Concrete

1. What are the different stages of manufacturing of concrete? Describe in detail the compaction of concrete.
2. What is the effect of vibration on the strength and durability of concrete? Explain the different types of vibrators.
3. Assuming that concrete is made from the correct ingredients and in the correct proportions, what other requirements must be met to ensure a durable structure, that is, a structure with long life?
4. Differentiate between volume batching and weigh batching. In concrete mix procedure which one is superior?
5. Explain different methods of transporting concrete.
6. What is pumped concrete and what are the precautions taken in pumping the concrete?
7. State the different types of special concreting techniques. Explain the ready mixed concrete with its classification and merits.
8. What is curing of concrete and its objectives? Enlist the various methods for curing and describe the membrane curing.
9. What are the basic requirements of formwork for concrete construction? Describe slip-forming technique. Also, define stripping time.
10. Write short notes on the following:
  - a) Maturity of concrete
  - b) Prolonged vibration and re-vibration
  - c) Effect of delay in placing

----
*Prof. Yuvraj Singh*
